[APPSEC-11306] Adding threat intelligence docs for ASM (#20114)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security/application_security/threats/threat-intelligence.md

If you use ASM, threat intelligence data is also available in APM traces. 

## Which sources are surfaced in ASM

Threat intelligence matches from any of the following sources are surfaced in ASM even in the absence of attacks:

- minerstat
- abuse.ch
- FireHOL
- spur (only the `malware` category)
- Tor Exit Nodes

To search for all traces flagged by a specific source, use the following query with the source name:

    @threat_intel.results.source.name:<SOURCE_NAME> 

To query for all traces containing threat intelligence from any source, use the following query:

    @appsec.threat_intel:true 

<div class="alert alert-info">
The query <code>@appsec.threat_intel:true</code> in the ASM traces tab is not equivalent to <code>@threat_intel.indicators_matched:*</code>. The <code>@threat_intel.indicators_matched:*</code> query contains values for every threat intelligence match, but the overall trace may not be resurfaced in ASM if there is no attack present and the source does not match one of the sources mentioned in the <strong>Which sources are surfaced in ASM</strong> section.
</div>

> ## Behavior across Cloud SIEM, APM, and ASM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Availability across Cloud SIEM, APM, and ASM
```

---
title: Threat Intelligence
kind: documentation
further_reading:
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/datadog-threat-intelligence/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Accelerate security investigations with Datadog Threat Intelligence"
- link: "/security/application_security/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Protect against threats with Datadog Application Security Management"
---

## Overview

Datadog provides built-in [threat intelligence][1] datasets for some services such as Application Security Management (ASM), or Cloud SIEM.

The Threat Intelligence data typically contains a source and a category. Different sources categorize IP addresses as known attackers, or as originating from a residential proxy, VPN, or so on.

> In ASM the Threat Intelligence data is used in two ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In ASM, the Threat Intelligence data is used in two ways:
```

If you use ASM, threat intelligence data is also available in APM traces. 

## Which sources are surfaced in ASM

Threat intelligence matches from any of the following sources are surfaced in ASM even in the absence of attacks:

- minerstat
- abuse.ch
- FireHOL
- spur (only the `malware` category)
- Tor Exit Nodes

To search for all traces flagged by a specific source, use the following query with the source name:

    @threat_intel.results.source.name:<SOURCE_NAME> 

Replace FireHOL by the source name you are interested in.
To query for all traces containing threat intelligence regardless of the source, use the following query:

    @appsec.threat_intel:true 

<div class="alert alert-info">
Note that the query <code>@appsec.threat_intel:true</code> is not equivalent to looking at the <code>@threat_intel.indicators_matched:*</code> attribute. The latter contains values for every threat intelligence match. This attribute can contain values, but the overall trace might not be resurfaced in ASM if there is no attack present, and the source does not match one of the sources mentioned previously.
</div>

## Behavior across Cloud SIEM, APM, and ASM

> Use the table below to understand how to find threat intelligence information for the Datadog services in use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table below shows the availability of threat intelligence information for Datadog services:
```

|Service|Other services in use|Description|
|---|---|---|
|APM| *None* or Cloud SIEM |Threat intelligence is not present.|
|APM| ASM |Threat intelligence is present the same way as in ASM.|
|Cloud SIEM| *Any* |Threat intelligence is present in matching logs.|
|ASM| *Any* |Only traces with attacks or `@appsec.threat_intel:true` are present. Every trace that matches a threat intelligence source contains the `@threat_intel` attribute.|

> As seen in the table above, APM requires ASM to display threat intelligence. Also, Cloud SIEM may display logs with threat intelligence data, which are not surfaced in ASM for the same IP addresses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As seen in the table above, APM requires ASM to display threat intelligence. Also, Cloud SIEM may display logs with threat intelligence data, which are not surfaced in ASM for the same IP addresses.
```

## Threat intelligence in the user interface

> When viewing the traces in the UI, you can see threat intelligence data under the `@appsec` attribute. The `category` and `security_activity` are both set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When viewing the traces in the ASM Traces Explorer, you can see threat intelligence data under the `@appsec` attribute. The `category` and `security_activity` attributes are both set.
```

    @threat_intel.results.source.name:FireHOL 

Replace FireHOL by the source name you are interested in.
Replace `FireHOL` by the source name you are interested in.
If you wish to know which traces contain significant threat intelligence, but don't care about the source
specifically, you can use the following query:

    @appsec.threat_intel:true 

<div class="alert alert-info">
Note that the query <code>@appsec.threat_intel:true</code> is not equivalent to looking at the <code>@threat_intel.indicators_matched:*</code> attribute. The latter contains values for every threat intelligence match. This attribute can contain values, but the overall trace might not be resurfaced in ASM if there is no attack present, and the source does not match one of the sources mentioned previously.
</div>

## Behaviour across Cloud SIEM, APM, and ASM

These Datadog products each may contain threat intelligence information. The behaviour can vary depending on which products you are using.

|Product|Other products in use|Description|
|---|---|---|
|APM| *None* or Cloud SIEM |Threat intelligence will not be present.|

> |APM| ASM |Threat intelligence will be present the same way as in ASM.|

Author: @buraizu It would repeat the information 2 rows down. Maybe I can add something like `See the ASM row for details.` ?

> |APM| ASM |Threat intelligence will be present the same way as in ASM.|

Reviewer: @jkirsteins thanks for pointing that out, I missed that previously and don't think any update is needed here

> |Cloud SIEM| *Any* |Threat intelligence will be present in every log.|

Author: `|Cloud SIEM| *Any* |Threat intelligence is present in matching logs.|`
